Okay, so now that I have a few more pages,
I have have some clean code edited up,
I need to address the fact that
my actual webpage looks ugly,
or well, I'm not a big fan of Times New Roman.
So I want to add a stylesheet to this.
But the thing is at the moment
I can add a stylesheet to each page
but each page is a separate component by itself.
The about component is its own thing.
The contact component is its own separate component,
the same thing as the index,
it's completely isolated, they don't share anything.
So what I want to do here
is create a shared layout component
that I would use to add in a common header,
a common footer, and maybe later on
if we have a user that's signed in perhaps
it'll show they're signed in.
And also more importantly to this project
it'll pull in the stylesheet
to get some nice fonts going on.
So I've one and created a directory
called components in the root of my project.
And I've added another directory
inside of that called layout
that has header, footer and index.js.
So now in some projects
I've just had components, layout.js,
and header.js and footer.js
all in the root of components.
For this particular one I decided to
where logical components live together,
put it in its own directory.
So this is what it looks like.
The header has a nav element with a bunch of links.
Nothing special.
The footer is just a text saying,
"This is copyright material,"
"don't steal it or share it with friends"
And the layout index page
just pulls in those two components and renders them.
And this here if you're not familiar with react
there's a couple of things happening here.
First of all, we have the children special property
which when I come to use this layout component
I'll use it like this.
Layout, then I'll put my content in here like this.
Children refers to this kind of subtree basically,
so it's putting the children
between the header and the footer.
And the second thing to note here is
I'm using object destructuring.
So when these components are called
an object called props, generally props is passed in,
and that props will contain children
and then anything else I add.
So class name is a prop.
Alt is a prop, and so on.
So, I'm using destructing to just say,
"I just want this property"
"out of that object and I don't care about anything else."
I could capture the rest using this syntax.
This is all ES6, 7, new syntax.
Just sugar to make things
a little bit easier to work with.
So now I have my common component,
let's go ahead and use this so that it works.
On this page we can see the header and footer
and I can add something about stylesheet.
So at the top of my contact let me do
import layout from components/Layout,
I think I need to do index,
I'm gonna try it without, see what happens.
And instead of this div I'm just gonna use Layout.
Let's head over to the contact page.
And there we go, yeah, it's working, perfect.
And so let's just apply this to these two as well.
And to the index page as well.
Pageindex.
So what's interesting here is
I've come up against a small bug.
I added the layout to the index page, okay.
Nothing looks wrong here on initial kind of viewing.
But the layout doesn't appear in my header and footer.
It's not there.
Now it could be that next has compiled page
and somehow forgotten to clear out this cache.
So just for my own kind of well being
I'm just gonna stop the server and start again.
I'm gonna head on over to the web page.
It should actually refresh by itself, might not.
It should get a notification
that the page was rebuilt.
There we go.
So there was something wrong with the cache.
Now, these things happen.
If it's not quite doing what I expected it to do
the first thing I might look at doing
is just restarting the server.
But now we have a common component,
we are ready to start adding some CSS.
I'm not an advocate of using,
I'm not bored yet with putting my CSS in my JavaScript,
we can certainly do that.
There's nothing stopping you from doing it,
you could include it up here,
you could do it on individual components
if that's how you're working.
I'm still of the thinking
that I'm going to add a separate, static CSS file,
and that's how I'm going to approach this project.
I will kind of show you a little bit
of CSS in JavaScript later on
just kind of for a few tweaks,
but that's how I'm gonna work for the time being.
So what I need to do
is somehow include a static file.
So in the next video I'm gonna show you
where static content lives
and how to get it in the markup properly.